Hello and welcome.
In this lecture we are going to be adding in an asset pack with a whole bunch of beautiful assets such
as this great level here which is going to be a fantastic starting point for our first person shooter
as well as character assets guns particle effects and more.
So let's dive in and see how to do that case so let's get started at the beginning creating the project.
Now you've done this a few times before.
So I'm going to go through this quickly.
The engine version I'm using is four point two five.
Feel free to use this one or a newer version when doing it for yourself.
We're going to go ahead and first of all launch the engine to get at new project creation dialogue.
This obviously may take a variable amount of time depending on your setup so in the meantime let's talk
about the assets we're going to be using here we have got a shooter asset pack that we are going to
be importing into our project and the way we're going to be doing this is it is itself a unreal project.
So we're going to migrate the assets out of that project and into your project.
Basically this instead of having a starter project that's just another way of doing it.
And the benefit of this is that if you have got an existing project you want to use these assets then
you can you can migrate those assets into that project.
So let's create first of all a project to start with.
Now you'll notice if this dialogue looks unfamiliar to you it's because it's a little bit new.
In some newer versions of real but don't worry it's not that different.
Basically has the same options.
We want to select games because that's what we're making we're not doing any of these other applications
that unreal is often used for.
So that games go to the next screen now it starts look a bit familiar.
So we want a blank project notes there's no tabs here for blueprint or C++ create a blank project on
this next screen.
This is where we have the option to select between blueprint or C++ I'm going to get to C++.
It's a C++ course.
Then all these other options are going to leave the same.
I'm not going to add start to content although you could if you wanted to have those extra assets in
the starter pack to play around within your shooter then I'm going to give my project a name which is
going to be simple shooter the name of this section and I'm already happy I got that location set to
the right thing.
But you can go ahead and change the location to wherever you want your project to be saved and go ahead
and create the project.
Again this can take a variable amount of time.
We're going to go back and have a look at the asset pack.
So as I said it is a new project and in fact is it made in version four point to two if I'm correct
which means that you can use it in any version greater than four point to two.
So we're going to go ahead and open it up.
And that just explains why we see this first dialog box that says select an engine version because the
version of the project itself was not four point two five.
So it's just going to do an upgrade but that's fine.
We can go ahead and do an upgrade to whatever version you've currently got on your system and it should
work just fine.
And the zip for this asset pack can be found against this lectures resources.
So you do go ahead and download that.
Get that extracting it can take a little bit of time because there's quite a lot of heavy assets in
there make sure you get that download started while you're watching this video.
Now for the next step we will need to have this discovering assets a little dialogue have finished discovering
all the assets in the project because we can't migrate them if it doesn't know what they are.
So what we're going to do basically is take this folder here the asset packs folder you can go and have
a look at it.
There's a few different asset packs that I've aggregated together from the permanently free collection
from unreal example projects and some assets of my own which I have created with my microphone.
And you can go and have a look at take a look at any of this.
It's quite fun anyway but we're going to try and migrate this.
That's right click on the asset pack and hit the migrate button.
So we're doing this at the root folder so that in migrating all of these folders underneath it you can
see that it's selected them all automatically and we're going to go ahead and click Okay.
That's all the asset.
So we want to migrate then what we need to do is go and navigate our way to the content folder of the
project we want to import this into you can see it's currently in the content folder of the projects
that we're importing them from.
So the shooter asset pack content is where it currently is.
But we want to go to where we've created the new projects so for me that's under courses and unreal.
And then the simple shoes that we've just created and then you can see the unravels created this content
folder where all your blueprints and your assets generally live.
So once you've got that an empty content folder.
We can just go ahead and hit select folder and the copying process is going to start.
This can take a little while because there's a few gigs of assets in here there's quite a lot of high
res assets for you to use.
So once your download is finished do go ahead and get started on this migration as soon as possible
to bring those assets in to your project Okay so once that is complete you may get a message saying
that some files were not successfully copied that may or may not be a problem we'll see down the line
we can always migrate things again if we find that something is missing.
So let's take a brief look at what came in.
We're going to go over to our simple shoes so we can now close down the shooter asset pack we no longer
need that project you can delete it off your downloads if you like or keep it around in case you want
it for something else.
Now what's in the asset packs.
I think the most interesting things to have a look at are the modular sci fi season one starter bundle
which is in the permanently free collection so you could go ahead and download this anyway I've just
packaged it all together to make it simple.
And what we can have a look at is the collection maps and map number one go ahead and load that one
up.
So once that has opened and it can take a while depending on your machine for me it took about five
or 10 minutes to open this map.
But don't worry once you've opened it once it's going to be a lot quicker in future.
And what you're going to see is this kind of environment.
At first it might be not particularly pretty as you can see over here.
That's because we're still compiling the shaders and there's lots of shaders to compile for a scene
like this and once that's done this is going to look super gorgeous and pretty.
So that's what we're aiming to get is in to being able to have this level here.
I'm gonna make that my default map so I'm going to go over to settings project settings then to maps
and modes and I'm going to change over the editor startup map to be this one which I think was called
Map 1.
So it's going to search for it.
Same for the game default mode is also going to be map one for now until we create our own.
And I can go ahead and close that down.
The other thing I wanted to show you in the asset pack is the paragon Wraith which comes from epics
canceled Paragon game and if we go into the Paragon wraith characters heroes folder wraith then we're
going to see this guy.
If we go and have a look at his blueprint character which again may take a little second to load and
once that has opened up you can go to the viewport to have a look at the blueprints and have a look
at the Wraith character.
Now again compiling shaders so you can't see the shaders on this guy.
He is very pretty.
Once you can so do go ahead and open all these assets up it will start the shader compilation process
and you'll be able to see what we're going to be working with.
So that's it for me in this lecture we set up our project we've got the assets and we've had a little
poke around and look around.
The next step that I'm going to do that you may wish to is optional step is to put this all under version
control.
For that I've included this adults get ignore file in my downloads here which is going to be against
this lecture.
And what we're going to do is we're going to just go ahead and copy that in to our project.
So I'm going to go to the simple shooter project that we just created earlier and a copy in this dot
gets ignore file and then what I can go ahead and do is in the Visual Studio project that was opened
up by the Visual Studio code project that was opened up because that's the editor I'm using I can go
ahead to source control tab and initialize my repository here and choose a simple shooter as the folder
that I want to initialize the repo in because I call that dot gets ignore file I won't get reams and
reams of stuff well I will get reams and reams of stuff but I'll get fewer reams of stuff than I would
have got if I didn't have I get ignored it gets ignored just make sure that the files that we don't
need to track because they're easy to reproduce for the computer don't get tracked.
So then what I can do is I can go ahead and put in a message and I do recommend you use some sort of
version control like this to keep track of keep a backup of the stuff that you're doing and keep regular
staging points so that if anything goes wrong you don't have to start from scratch.
You got somewhere to take off from.
So once I've given it a name you can go ahead and hit the commit button up at the top which is a little
tick and you can see that because I haven't staged any changes it's saying do you want me to stage them.
And if if I didn't want it to do that automatically I can just go to the changes that I want to stage
I can add them with the little plus button here and it goes and puts them from this changes category
to the staged changes categories and I can do that on all of the changes I can just add the plus button
next to changes that will take a little while and then I could go ahead and commit that way as well
and that's the first step to using version control really don't need anything else you don't need to
use get hard.
You don't need to do download another tool you could just use Visual Studio code as a starting point
and it's going to give you some of that safety of having those checkpoints that you could always go
back to if anything goes wrong.
But as I say using version control is an optional step.
And with so many assets in your repository it can be quite a slow step as you can see in my stage changes
are going to take probably about 5 10 minutes to add just in the same way as loading them up.
Took a long time.
That's all from me.
We've set up our project we put it under version control.
We'll see you in the next lecture.